I don't know, everyone.
Wow. Already 31 people here.
I don't know if we expect that.
so many people. How's everyone?
Hey!
Very good, good.
Yeah. I think maybe we will start, maybe everyone…
introduce yourself, maybe if we have time, maybe just…
One or two minutes, and…
So, I'm hosting…
Uh, this, uh…
Lunch, uh…
Um, so… I think my topic is really agent AI.
identity and access management.
Like, that's really easy.
very important topic.
Um…
And we did publish some white papers at the Cloud Associate Alliance, but uh…
It's not for me to…
really to present, it's more for…
everyone to talk about that. It's a discussion.
And so on, okay.
Let me see. Can you guys hear me, or no?
Good, how are you?
Can hear you, it's just… you sound very far away, like your microphone's…
picked up from somewhere else for him.
Oh, really?
Oh.
No, I do hear him, uh…
Can you hear me?
Like, the volume is low. It feels low.
But I can hear everybody else.
Yeah, I'm new uniform.
maybe that's just me.
Just this week, I'm in Europe, otherwise I… I'm in…
Oh, this is great.
Easter Coast. Can you hear me now, or I just disabled the…
Uh, Bluetooth.
Yeah, this is great.
Okay, so…
That's… that's great. So, how about that?
A little bit about myself, I'm a research fellow at the Colorado Security Alliance.
We did publish a few,
Oh, uh, white papers on the aging AI, uh…
I'm the executive for this confluence, uh, in the review committee.
I don't have time, actually, to be in person there, because I have the…
event at the Barcelona.
Um, yeah, so that's why I volunteer for this particular event.
during the lunch time. So, thanks, everyone. I didn't expect we have so many people.
So, I would like people to join, it just has this doorbell, so…
Okay, it's fine. Uh, yeah, how, by the way, maybe just a very fast know each other, um…
Uh, so I will start with Dan, since, uh…
what I see is here. So, Dan, can you…
introduce yourself a little bit.
Hi, Ken. Thank you. It's nice to see you, and looking forward to seeing you very soon. I work at Jp. Morgan Chase. I'm an AI security, and… Uh, there's a lot of stuff going on. I think about it all the time. I think about it on the bus home.
And I'm here to learn more.
Yeah, thanks, Dan. Good to see you again. I hope to see you soon again. So, I have, uh…
Yes, we can hear you.
Hi, yeah, hi.
Hyla Shamir? Do I pronounce the name?
Yeah, my name is Hila, uh, it means Halo in Hebrew.
Hila, okay.
Um, I was engineering manager at Apple, uh, AI and Data Infrastructures, uh, I delivered…
Cinematic Video Portrait Night Mode, so basically a lot of vision, machine learning models you have in your iPhones.
I hope you have iPhones. Um, so yeah, that's me.
Cool.
Yeah.
Yeah, thank you. Uh, then I see Dan Hamilton.
Yeah, I think you are walking, like,
Yeah, if I'm gonna be, uh, stuck on Zoom, I gotta get some exercise somehow, so, yeah.
No. Correct.
Uh, Dan Hamilton, um, I am heading up the InfoSec program at a startup in Utah.
Um, called, uh, Tava Health.
recently just joined there. Um, been at a variety of different startups for most of my career in security.
Uh, most recently left, uh, JPMorgan Chase.
After our company was acquired, um…
Cool, cool. Thank you. I see Akash… Akashita.
Sorry, I pronounced the name really terribly.
That's okay, it's okay, it's not very common. Uh, hi, I'm Akshata. I am a research lead at, uh, Palo Alto Networks for Generative AI Red Teaming.
Um, I've been in the cybersecurity industry
for a while, and I moved over from malware research to this, and right now,
my focus and interests is figuring out, uh, H&TKI redeeming, how can we make it?
stronger. So I'm… I'm very happy to be here and learn from all of you.
Cool, yeah, I know Protect AI now is a partner for your team.
Which is good, yeah, I work with them a lot.
Oh, that's nice, yeah.
Yeah, I see Jagos.
Jagus R-U-I-U.
But, yeah, that's me.
Are you able to talk? I think you're on mute, I come back to you. Michael, you guys are next?
Everyone, great to meet you all, and Ken, thank you for hosting us. I'm Mike. I'd say, you know, one part CISO, one part strategic security advisor. One part.
beginning investor and just one part, you know, student, uh, trying to learn all the things.
Yeah, everyone wants to do them to hear. So, that's why it's exciting, right?
So, yeah…
when Vanessa, yeah.
Yeah.
I see you as a next…
Great, thank you. Scott?
Scott Lobotz?
Okay, uh…
So, uh, yeah, I just waited for 30 seconds. If you are not on mute, maybe I go to the next one.
Gabe.
Lohit?
Huh. You guys are… yeah, go ahead, continue. Yeah.
Hi, folks. Yeah, this is Rohit here. I'm sorry I'm in the car, so I'm not not on camera. My name is Rohit, I am part of the company called Superhuman in the security team, been with other financial players in the past, like Robinhood and PayPal.
interest is how can we use AI for both security and also improving product innovation, but do it in safe manner.
Right. So…
I think because we have so many people, I don't think we can go to each of this, unless you want to introduce yourself.
Uh, go ahead. Otherwise, I think we will start…
talking about the…
Agent AI identity. I have a few questions.
People can jump in. Uh, I may have a little bit of presentation if needed.
Uh, but, uh, yeah, uh, if you want to…
introduce yourself, it's time to jump in.
Okay, since, uh…
No one want to…
Okay, yeah, you can also flum.
Uh, yeah, write to the chat.
So, I have some of icebreaker questions, um…
that, uh, potentially we can talk about that. I put in the chat.
And, uh, maybe we start towards, like, uh…
us, ask us some questions.
people can just jump in. There's a nose.
perfect solution yet, right? So the first question I put in the chat as well, right?
So when aging to act on behalf of humans, where should the accountability
reside, uh, is a developer, deployer, or is a system owner?
Uh, who will be responsible for the agent?
Someone want to jump… jump in? That's all, like, brainstorming, right?
I mean, I think it's always the system owner, right? It's the organization that's using an agent is accountable for whatever they're doing, whether they're doing it with humans or doing it with agents, at least.
That's my opinion, and I think that's kind of where legislation is heading as well.
So, how do you define system?
owner, so if developer, developers, uh, agentic AI system,
And, uh, configure it.
Would the developer be part of the…
System Una?
No, I would say the the organization consuming the agent. Right? So at the end of the day, an entity, an organization is responsible for.
The decisions they make and the output that comes out of the organization, whether that output or those decisions are made, you know, from AI or from humans. So, you know, we might call this organization the customer.
Uh, or, uh, you know, the buyer, but essentially it's not.
You know, I mean, the builders have liability for building something that is, uh.
like, you know, defensible and credible, so they might have liability, but the organization using something has accountability for what it's doing.
Right. Yeah, I see people raising their hand. Dan Hamilton, you…
You go next?
Yeah. Yeah, I think that's a really interesting point, and I'm…
it's going to be interesting to see kind of how this breaks down in the courts.
Michael, I think your assumption there, and as you kind of bring about it, it's the company that's consuming the model, or…
you know, using the AI model and then its outputs as part of their company workflow,
I mean, that traditionally makes sense of, like, you know,
nobody's holding Microsoft accountable for
you know, uh, issues with its systems. But I do wonder…
you know, is there a shift in the responsibility model?
from these agents, as… and as they come from…
you know, different… different sources, different places.
Is there a shift in the platform? Do they own more of this? Because…
They have the training sets, they build the models, or is it all just kind of more like, this is a platform, use it as you will?
Just curious what people are seeing, um…
On that front.
Yeah, so maybe take a kind of example, like, uh, uh, like FST,
Right.
car, right? So the… this is actually the agent is driving the car for you.
So if it's getting to the accident.
Uh, who's responsible? Maybe this can be one of…
Right.
Yeah, I think there's no answer. Also, like you said, there's no kind of legal…
Uh, seeing yet, with the liable for what? Yeah, I…
Yeah, like…
You're about to be here.
Asi Hilah, you raising his hand as well.
Yeah, um… I feel like we're entering, really, the era of, uh…
liability era of tech, you know? Because now, I'm producing code that I can't verify. Like, if when I was, for example, engineering manager, I could actually read the entire codebase, now I can do it, because
I don't know, I create, like, thousand lines of code in a second, so I do feel like now… and I'm…
frankly afraid of it, that, uh, we're becoming the scapegoats of our LLMs.
And eventually, um, we will be held accountable. I feel like it's the developer
He's the owner of the code, he's responsible for it, even though the legal entity is the company.
Um… still, I believe it will be… basically, we will just…
need to sign the signature, and…
Um… it's like…
instead of human in the loop, we will have the human in the cell. I mean, I will be…
in charge of everything that goes wrong, so…
I don't know, it's really interesting what legal mechanism they will create to address this
problem, because it's a huge problem, in my opinion.
Yeah, and the legal framework is not there yet, but the problem in itself is really complicated.
Yes.
Like, you can vibocode it, like, you take example, an open claw, uh, it's a good framework, but the majority of code is Viper-coded.
And that's why there's a lot of security vulnerability, and team is actually trying to fix it, but uh…
Uh, if open call, uh, right, it happened, right? It deleted the email, uh, it has the API key leak,
So, Ozius, who is responsible for what? So, maybe the user, the customer, maybe the developer,
Yeah, so I think this is a good question. I see 6 people raising handles, Chris.
You are next. I want to… everyone has a chance to talk, so…
Chris.
Chris, can you… can you…
Oh, you… you are on mute? Uh…
Maybe, uh…
Okay. Yeah, yeah.
Sorry, don't double mute. Can you hear me now? Okay. Yeah, so my big concern is how large this question is going to become as things like open cloud become.
Mm-hmm.
Easier and easier for people to use. Um, like, we have the Facebook, um… I don't know if he… yeah, we're the Facebook. Uh, security guy, um, was using, um, uh, OpenClaw, and it just started deleting their, their email. Um, so someone that.
typically their job is AI can have these kind of crises as people start adopting these personal assistants where they don't fully understand.
Like, what they're capable of, and the liabilities of the thing that their agent may end up doing. Um, and you start doing that at a larger and larger scale as open cloud becomes easier and easier and easier for.
uh, less technically-minded people to use it. I think we're entering a new age of, um… where we're gonna try and hold anyone accountable is going to be next to impossible, because open cloud design did not really.
Yeah.
be, uh, leased or whatever. It's designed to solve your problem any way it can. Those ways may be very detrimental, so… Yeah, I think, I think it's a good question.
Yeah, so Agentech AI is here. Certainly, people use it, uh, but as a whole,
uh, security, uh, framework and governance framework, the legal framework, is not there yet. I think that we are…
be kind of obstacle
for the real deployment. That's, uh… but I think, collectively, the community is working on that. Uh, so Chris, it's good comments you have.
Uh, I see next one is a Shaheem.
Back…
Hey, how's it going? We've sort of zoomed up to a super high legal level, so I want to zoom in to a super detailed level and sort of say, a lot of us are coming from large companies, or have previously been at large companies, so I'd be.
Curious how folks look at governance around their workload identities, and whether there's a process to say, hey, you're going to be running this agent.
How do you get an identity tied to that agent rather than your productivity account or your typical API key and coming up with internal solutions for that governance is probably the immediate.
Uh, next step to be able to say, oh, well, we know that developer over here did that, and it didn't… that open Claude instance didn't even have access to their email, because it was a separate privileged account, let's say.
Yeah, I think it's just good comments. I think maybe industry-related channel goes this way, right? So, each employee
manage a team of agent, or a team of digital employees.
And, uh, decide which employee has which access. Maybe just…
a digital employee has access to one box. Another employee to…
have access to the outlook.
Then another one has Slack, or maybe one of the…
employee, digital employee, has, uh, multiple access, so it really depends on its capability and also reputation. Like, you do… you need onboarding it, like, it's not like you…
just day one. Actually, I was… before…
I come to Barcelona, I was in Baltimore attending a cybersecurity conference,
And, uh, one of, actually, uh, the leading frontier
company, a CISO, said that, uh,
you do not deploy agent day one. You have to, like,
kind of like you deploy, uh, a, uh, kind of your co-worker. You don't say, okay, day one you do
the very important work. You have to gradually ramp it up, right?
Buddhism reputation. So that's… that's, I think, is a good comment. It's also go back to…
Dan Hamilton originally said it's really the user
really say you have an organizational chart, you…
Every employee has to manage a team, right? And also, you…
gradually onboarding it, so that's a good comment.
Um, so, let's see, next one I see…
a Kachata, you…
Yeah.
Hey, uh, so for me, it feels like shared responsibility, like, you know how you go in a car accident, and you're, like, 75-25, you do this sort of math.
Um, but see…
from what I see before LLMs, the system owner always did have some responsibility in ensuring the code was deployed well. They did have process in place.
We cannot say, just because now I don't understand, or I don't know what's the code underneath it, we didn't have the responsibility. We still own it because we are now exposing what we have.
And reaping the benefits of the system by exposing it to others. So we do have that. At the same time, if I think about LLM developers, yes, they own…
responsibility. The way I see it…
Playing out is via class action suits, like,
Like, it becomes bigger because the number of
customers using that are higher. The number of people using this is higher. So I see it as a more widespread, even though for this owner system, this owner, they take 80%, but if you add it up, 10% across many agents used for different use cases, then it all adds up and becomes
financially punitive enough.
for them to put attention in.
But there's the last case, which is…
What about the open source models that are not owned in the US? They are not legally responsible
Mm-hmm.
for anything. Then you… you're… like, it… then it is completely on you to figure out
That you have to use a US-based
Um, you know, AI, uh, company, because you need that shared responsibility. So I think there are multiple
It's not a one-size-you-or-me, it is all of us.
Yeah, I would say this is a really good comment. It's, uh, one effort that Cloud Security Alliance,
Uh, is doing. I'm part of their effort.
is really focused on shared responsibility, right? So we have the AI
Kongchu Matrix, and then we define who is responsible for what. There's lots of discussion. I don't think we…
kind of really, uh, finalized it yet. That's only the version, right, so…
Yeah, so this applies to the identity. It's also applied to the whole
Like, a model of security is a data security, and agent AI applications built on top of.
Uh, this. So, yeah, thanks for the comments.
Ashley.
Hi, yeah, I think… I think I really agree with what everybody's saying, I just kind of want to tack on
I think this comes down to the problem of if everybody has some degree of ownership, then there is no true owner, and somebody
very, um, accurately pointed out, when you end up, like, in an incident situation,
Uh, it's pretty much the 123-not-it scenario. So, if somebody's able to point to the person to their right or left, they do not want to be accountable. And so, at the end of the day, I think that kind of goes back to the
the first gentleman I heard speaking on this, that
the number one point person… I'm just not sure that agendic…
solutions, I think, in this one particular area, I don't think we're deviating too much from the same way that we handle application security incidents at, like, an incident level.
So, when it comes to responsibility, um, so the business owner, the person who owns the budget for that program, who oversees the teams,
who are responsible for administering it.
they own it, yes. Um, and they're responsible for making sure that their developers are using the best practices, that they're coordinating with their cybersecurity team, that they have logging and monitoring in place, that they're staying up to date.
With, uh, you know, the best practices and new vulnerabilities as they become known.
Um, so ultimately, you know, they're responsible for making sure that their teams are abiding by that.
Um, but certainly, you know, if there are developers that are found to not be…
following by their policies, or using best practices, or just not otherwise, you know, staying up to date with, um,
with best practices, then yeah, that, you know, it may be, uh…
that they're finding out that they are accountable as well, but yeah, I think it's important to have
Yeah, I think you summarized what we discussed very well. Yes, so the first of all, shared responsibility is important, but you do need someone
are really responsible for that. It's kind of like a lazy model, right? Who's responsible
who's accountable, uh, who can be the, um, uh, consulted, who can be informed. So, Lacy model.
is important, and uh… so the…
business owner leverages a traditional kind of responsibility model. It's also important, or whoever.
decided to pay the budget for that, and you have organization chap.
And then you have to go through the process to
validate the agent ID. So the…
Only difference is, like, the agent ID itself. It's…
It's a non-determinous tech,
It's really different from traditional,
deterministic, uh, identity in the software. So that's maybe the difference, and that's why the question coming from.
But yeah, it's, uh, I think it's a good discussion. There's a, um,
I think a sum of level of consensus here, I would say, right? Uh, but still, there's a…
Still, there is some, like, open questions here.
Um, yeah, so, let's see, yeah, we don't have to go through all 10 questions here, but uh…
We can just go maybe a few. So, the second question…
Yes, harsher identity be defined for an agent?
That continuously update its internal state, like memory, right? The agent has memory,
has the context,
And his skill,
And also, it has own… it's a decision…
logic over the time, like, I think people heard of,
A so-called recursive self-improvement.
It can improve itself, right?
Uh, so, how we would define this, uh…
the identity in this particular scope.
If you give the agent,
And then it, uh, uh, changed over time.
So, yeah, you can jump in. It's just for open discussion.
Uh, you know, I've got some thoughts. I don't know that this is feasible in the current technology, but ideally we'd have some form of version control right associated with identity so that we're not only understanding that agent number one.
did a, you know, made a decision, or took an action or something. We understand when it took the action, and it was version, you know, a dot 5, or whatever, because at times, you know, we may need to go back. We may need to see.
What was the context of that agent at the time it did a thing, and not just the agent did the thing. And so we'll want to understand, you know, the particulars about the point in time. So my thought is, as since an agent's updating itself.
Right? It would be good, whether we call that version control or some some mechanism to understand at which state an agent acted. That's my opinion.
Yeah, I think that's a good point. Uh, maybe go to a more basic question than this question, is
what should it be the agent? Like, what should it be included in the agent? Should it be the model, the skill, the memory, which is MD file?
Um, um, what they can be doing, like, what should it be
included as a tribute.
officer-agent Ident identity. Maybe it's just a basic question. Then also the version, right? The version is also the attribute.
Um, Marcus.
Yeah, I want to tie in on that one, actually, because…
I think that this is a very programmatic way of looking at agents, without
take into account that they have what the name implies, agency.
And when I looked at the last… I did a release of the OWAS Top 10 for Agentic AI,
I was well surprised. Category 10 is Rogue Agents, and we need to face the fact that it's not just something programmatic in terms of the memory, the knowledge, etc., that's assigned to an agent. There can be drift
That's outside what we are normally used to from an SDLC sort of, uh…
framework, which I can't really get my hands around yet, still, but it still sounds like sci-fi, but it clearly is a reality.
that the have been a number of use cases now where there has been drift.
And I don't think any versioning or so will help on that step. This is a different framework.
Makerson, like, if this is the first time you talk, and you have not introduced yourself, or maybe just introduce yourself.
Yeah.
Sorry. Yeah, sure, of course. My name is Marcus Vertel. I am calling from Ireland, although you might hear by the accent I'm German.
I, uh, work for one of the leading vulnerability companies, so I am involved with…
AI from a perspective of skepticism, not development.
Okay, thank you. Yeah, I think it's, uh, you make a very good point.
Uh, who, who else want to jump in?
And, um, so we move to the next question, but for this, I think if we can identify what
constitute as an agent.
Um, identity, right? So, it may be… maybe even… should I… yeah, maybe the question is, should the training data
be part of the agent identity, or not.
Akshata, yeah.
Sorry, I was not going to answer that, but uh…
I haven't thought about the training data question. I had a different point to make. Uh, which is the…
Chew.
It's not only the agent, but also who is using that agent.
So we do expose the usage of agents through API keys or some…
Some vague form of, uh…
Hopefully, there is some… some exposure of this concept of users for it. And it also matters who is the user using this agent.
ties into the agent identity. The reason I say this, depending on
that user, maybe what the agent is supposed to do is different from
Hmm.
another who's, uh, user. So I… I think that
It's not just the agent's identity. There is the usage
with the particular user of this agent also matters, or comes in.
Um, no…
Right.
Yeah, I think it's…
Yeah, I think they're just good comments. Like, it's more like as an agent to give it to job description, what did it do?
And in job descriptions, say,
Who… who will use you, right? So the use is important, but it should be really, should be agent's job description, like,
You are the agent for…
uh, scan the resume database.
And that's all you… so you…
who use it, your HR person, but you only scan the resume database. You will not do the call. Do the call is in the call center.
That should restore what it does.
Right? So this may be a very good attribute, like, uh…
Uh, what do you do? Who will be your user?
What is your intended purpose? Because the decision logic is very dependent on LLMs, what they do, but the intended purpose decides what you should be.
Right. Yeah, I think this is really good comments. So, what else?
what else should be included in the identity? I think the job description or intent.
intended to use is a good one.
I think people also say the intent, right? Uh, what is the agent intent? Like, there's also…
And should it be training data, should it be included?
And also the model behind it, right? And, uh…
What else? Like, uh, how do you make sure it's secure? Do you need to have a digital signature somehow?
So the paper that we have published through Cloud Security Alliance,
is always said that you need a verifiable credential
to validate you…
capabilities. What capabilities? So we define this as a capability. Maybe it's a similar thing, right? So, you have this particular
translation, right? You can translate from
English to Spanish, and you have…
You basically sign it. Signet is through some
They say, we validate it, we use it, we test it, it can do this kind of translation.
Right? So this part of your verifiable credentials saying that,
a certain party verified for you.
Yeah, so that's maybe… yeah.
a good point.
So, if we do not have any other people answer this question, let's go to the third question.
Consent is important.
So, it's talking about delegated or solitary, when, especially in multiple aging system,
Um, like, if one agent…
Um…
delegated or solitude. So, initially, it's the human delegate or solitary to Agent A,
And as in Agington,
delicate or solitude to Agent B, so what is consent?
works, right?
Uh, because it's not…
made to initial, uh…
scope, or the instructions.
example, like, uh, again, go through the resume database thing. It's, uh, these…
The resume database scanner, find a good resume.
And then you have the call agent.
It was a call, and then…
some interview happened.
Right? And… and then you've hired, there's another agent to say, how much we need to give you.
As a salary, then there's another agent. So there is a delegation happening in this multiple agent system.
And, uh, so if you initiate intent is just to scan the resume database,
then it really should not do the calling, or even find the salary database, trying to find, right?
So this is really… causes consent should work.
Also, the chain of evidence, right?
how it should work. Yeah. I just suppose the question, uh, so if we…
Anyone want to jump in?
Go ahead.
Uh, just a point of clarification on that, uh, Ken, is that…
is… you're basically saying, like, if everyone's familiar with the confused deputy problem,
that's essentially kind of what we're seeing here with agents, is how do we defend against a confused deputy problem?
Now, I don't know. It's doing it in IAM policies and…
Yeah.
in cloud systems, it's pretty straightforward.
Yeah, I don't know how that works in… with agents.
Yeah, part of it… part of it's the confused liability problem, the agent don't know.
Uh, what is, uh…
He should be supposed to do in terms of the privileges, so he did something…
beyond his assigned scope. So that's part of that.
Our pathophysicists go back to the consent, right? Or consent is actually related to the
policy. So the policies say this particular agent can only do A, and if they do A plus B,
So that's maybe the problem, yeah.
Yeah, I think it's tied back to what you said, the confused with the deputy.
Uh, let's see, I have 3 people, and who is the first one?
Uh…
I cannot see it from here.
Uh, yeah, so if you, you as the next one, I think it's, uh,
Macass, right?
Okay,
From what I see, Samarkasia.
Then, just to jump in on this, excellent point in the chat regarding deterministic versus non-deterministic.
And this issue with regards to consent also falls into this. I think what… this isn't something we just set out at design stage. This needs to be just as much as a question of visibility, especially when you have age-in-to-age in communication. And that's gonna be…
Another aspect. To safeguard or to actually get some governance around the issue of consents, or stage, or layered consents, or, you know, handed on.
You're gonna have to have visibility at a scale and speed that is probably not gonna be human governance, so that's gonna be another agent, most likely, some form of security agent, that will try police the communication in a sort of an A-to-A communication profile.
Which opens a whole nother can of worms again to make sure that that… yeah, I know, exactly. I don't know which of the speakers said that today again, and maybe it was this disease from Google or so, like, that we were, you know, we're gonna look back on this year as the year where things were simple. I'm starting to get a handle on this. Like, it definitely doesn't seem…
easy to… there's no easy answers, I think I'm saying.
So, if you can imagine one answer…
what they do would it be? Marcus?
But I think visibility is, like, with most things in security, the visibility is gonna be the first thing, yeah? Uh, you can do so much at design stage,
In terms of making sure that the guardrails are right, that your framework is right, but I think once you let it loose, visibility's gonna be the first criterion.
How you then do governance and enforcement is going to be a second point, but visibility will be the first one on actually doing that in an A-to-A context.
It's really, really difficult.
Yeah. That's a good look.
So, how do you do visibility?
Maybe I chanted just a Jew or you done, sorry.
Uh, I'm not deep enough in what some of our engineers are cooking up on this point, yeah? Obviously, having a start… having MCP as a standard, or standard framework to start with,
is probably the first point, but…
It's gonna be a constant…
struggle between getting the needed visibility to actually put some safeguards around it, and at the same time not affecting runtime and performance, so that you don't drag the performance… the efficiencies that you want to gain with Agentic AI back down again to something that human-observable, or…
I don't know where that balance will lie, if that makes any sense.
Yeah. This is all really very hard to make a balance, but certainly visibility is important, and…
latency and performance is also important.
It's really hard, yeah. Uh, but I think gradually, we should be able to figure this out. I'm optimistic.
That's…
Uh, so I see Akash Shatta, you're raising the hand, yeah.
Hi, uh, so…
What I was thinking is that
If we are going to…
let a non-deterministic agent talk to another non-deterministic agent. It's ripe for all sorts of
combinatorial space problems, right? We can't guide it. But if we can,
put a deterministic layer in between.
Where one agent can convert its thought process, or what it wants the other agent to do, into a deterministic policy.
uh, like a fixed policy format.
Hmm.
And then there is always… we can… we know we have templates predefined templates, so this is only allowed to do between these kind of policy formats. If it doesn't fall anywhere in that
don't… don't even bother. So, I feel like converting it
like, always having the mechanism for communication.
to be non-deterministic to deterministic, then deterministic goes to the input to another non-deterministic.
That might break this
the number of combinations that is possible by, uh, for all sorts of
Yeah, then the confused jeopardy, uh, sort of reduces, because now we are… we are…
curtailing what kind of actions can be taken.
Yeah, just a good point. So…
This reminded me of the agent payment protocol designed by Google, right?
It basically says, uh, when you're trying to make a payment to you,
Uh, have the intent and mandate. It leverages digital signature.
And then when you check out, you sign the cut mandate. So this is a deterministic, uh,
conchure through digital signature,
Uh, to govern the non-deterministic
behavior of agent.
The key thing here is really, you do have the human in the loop to check it, okay, right? So check it, uh…
then it has a digital signature kickoff.
Uh, so you can… the agent-to-agent system,
The issue here is the agent may misunderstand the intent, or there may be the prompt injection.
there. So even you have deterministic layer of policy or control plane,
Uh, with non-deterministic adjunct, especially with the indirect prompt injection,
That may be not as effective. So… so maybe you still have to have
kind of a human is a rule.
there depends on the…
Um, level, like, or severity of the transaction.
or amount of transaction, right? So if it's, um…
small amount of transaction, it's okay, but you can let it, uh…
do this kind of, uh, agent-to-agent without
human to make as a deterministic conchure. Uh, but, uh,
for some high-valued transaction, you do need this kind of thing.
So, uh, this may be one pop-up.
potential solution, right? There's no standard solution yet, but that's a good…
Go to comments.
Okay, uh…
Anyone else want to add the comments here?
Um, I would like to respond to Marcus from before. I think what you said is really smart, and actually, I sent it in a private message to Dan before, that we will have eventually, uh,
agents running… writing code for you, and then you'll also have an agent who is… who need to verify the code, and, you know, like, a lawyer agent to inspect your output, and…
I feel like, um, another point I would like to raise is someone said…
And it actually clicked for me that agent come from agency, but we don't have agency, because, I mean…
I start Clote Code, and it writes something, and then it does. I mean, it never… it doesn't stay persistent, you know, because I…
always start, like, mini, mini, mini, mini-mini agents, and they all, um, live for a certain task, and then they die.
Did you use your rough loop?
Yeah, I actually really like Ralph Wood.
Right. Even though you're using rough loop, huh?
Right.
Yeah, and it's a rough whoop, what it is. It's basically just a bash loop that people gave it a fancier name in the AI.
And… I'm sure that we will see task orchestrator, and someone will give them a more fancy AI name.
to some old mechanism that a software engineer used for…
20, 30 years.
Anyway, I feel like it's, um…
It's still… the point is that the agent doesn't really have agency, and it leaves from task to task, and the task can take 1 minute, 2 minutes, and…
How can you hold someone accountable for doing only that job?
Um, so that's, um… I feel like we need to…
it's mind-blowing. I'm not sure how even you can look at it, and I'm very glad we're having this discussion here.
Yeah, that's it.
Yeah, so… so I think this is interesting, right? Uh, the agency itself is really the model, like, uh…
Uh, the long-learning task, especially the law horizon agent, it's really not an agent framework, like, even Rough Loop.
like you said, it could also stop, uh, depends on how you use it.
Uh, that's why, like, eventually it's the model, like…
Like, uh, the…
Opus 4.6,
support more long-hours and tasks than the previous version. Codex 5.4 now just coming out.
houses more support in terms of localism tasks than the previous five-point study or two.
So, yeah, so this, uh, the good comments. So, but, uh, one thing is, I don't quite agree with you as associate or conflict just with agency.
Even you have really short duration of the task.
to implement, or to do,
it still has agency, right? Uh, but it's agency, it's a short, shorter agency, maybe, you can call it.
Right? Uh, but, uh, yeah, I think it's good comments. I see Dan Hamilton, you're raising hand, yes.
Yeah, I think I just want to continue off on, kind of, how Gila's talking about this, because I do think that this is…
Um, I mean, not to jump back high level, I can't remember who it was that kind of brought us back down to more implementation details, which I do
enjoy, but I kind of just…
trying to paint the trajectory of the importance of talking about that,
I kind of think about, like, as Hila's talking about, is how do we capture
the, you know, it's kind of like a checksum of the reasoning of the model at the time.
And then go back and review it to be able to understand what was his reasoning, how is it getting there? Because…
these things will eventually get to the level, as I see it, as making really critical
you know, life or death decisions, right? You know, if we get, you know,
this idea of a lawyer agent, do we have a judge agent? Do we have, you know, people being sentenced?
to crimes based off of how an agent
reason they should be sentenced.
Or, you know, lower-level decisions even. But, um…
Yeah, I'm curious, what is the degree of statistical significance that we have to get to
Before we trust these models, right? A good… a good example would be, like, autonomous driving, right? Full self-driving,
Waymo.
Technology's been around for 12 or 15 years,
Um…
But we don't see, you know, Waymo is still very, very nascent.
in trying to roll it… rolling it out, and kind of where does that responsibility lie?
Um, obviously these things are already better than humans at driving.
Yet we still don't trust them. So…
How does that extend into other spaces?
Yeah, it's, uh…
In terms of autonomous driving, I think…
Oh, I… I'm… I'm with you.
Um, I have a different view. I actually trust it. I'm using the FSD. It's working.
Yeah.
full, yeah, full trust that we know it's better.
Waymo's way better than any human.
Right?
Totally agree. I mean, yeah, totally agreement.
Yeah, it's better than me, in terms of making tongues, like, parking all this. It's good.
Right. So, so, but is this a good comment? I think this is also in the kind of dispute between Entropic and the
depends upon what, right? In terms of… so the argument from Talio Amade,
is the model is not really at the point that it can do the,
fires a kind of weapon automatically, right? So, so that's…
currently, certainly not. So that's… you should not use it to… without human in the loop, to…
to shoot people. So that's maybe, uh… so… but with the autonomous job, we can trust it.
With some or four really high-stake, like, uh,
in the war, or in financial transactions.
Uh, you need to have to have the human in the loop. So that's, uh, yeah, I think just good comments.
you know, appoint person for accountability, otherwise there… there isn't accountability.
Actually, yes.
Yeah, I just wanted to say, um, yeah, I think… I think Dan is spot on in terms of, like,
aspirationally, we should be shooting for fully understanding the models, making sure that they're trained so that we can have the highest
trust in them, but I also think…
will probably never get to a point where we can really fully, implicitly trust a model.
Um, I think, you know, similar to how we have laws and methods to enforce them for humans,
Um, I think we're kind of always going to need some deterministic guardrails, especially in high-risk scenarios like the ones that
You just presented, um, even if we end up at a point where we don't have
Yeah. I do have a interesting discussion with one CISO.
Uh… during the Linux Foundation meeting in Napa Valley, uh, just a few days ago.
So, uh, one thing is…
We always talk that, uh, agent AI,
It's an undeterministic. We need to build a…
deterministic control plane on top of it.
Right? So, but there is one…
kind of, uh…
Squaff thought, say,
Actually, you can…
Um, not to really enforce it. It's really hard.
So, in the real thing, in the Luo world, it's also non-deterministic.
So if you really want an agent to do things, you…
do need torelate.
certain level of non-determinism.
Right? Into…
Uh, this aging AI system,
And that's why you need a kind of knob.
to say, uh, for certain…
activity or certain transactions, you can have,
non-determinism, and for some important transactions, certainly in the
wall, or like, you should not really have the weapon fire itself, or June.
Just the attack, right? You do have some people remote control it.
Uh, so yeah, but it's just a very interesting, uh, topic, I want to say, but what I see is really,
our word itself, the real world, is non-deterministic.
And for AI to really
resolve the real-world solution of problems.
do… you do need some level
often known determinism into it, but uh, yeah, there's still up to discussion, but I think it's…
good of comments, everyone.
Okay, let's move to next question, right? How can we preserve audibility
This is the, uh… we talked before, right?
When multiple agents collaborate, negotiate,
In dynamically create a sub-agent.
So this is more like a complex multiple-agent system.
you have the agent, the collaborate with each other,
And also, they negotiate, um, say,
Um, what capability you have. We actually published a research paper called Aging
capability negotiation and abandon political. So you…
Basically, the idea is that we use agent naming service,
So you find this agent through agent naming service, and you may find a list of agent,
who can do the work, like translation work.
For you. And then you negotiate to say, what is your service level agreement?
Right? What is your security compliance?
Uh, also through the kind of a protocol layer to do discussion, uh, to do negotiation, and then you're binding through a digital signature, then you can start work.
Um, this is the future, so… but how audibility works?
Right? So that's maybe the question.
Um…
Anyone want to take on this?
It's just too far in the future, maybe. We don't know yet, right? We're trying to actually go as soon as the IETF, uh, to discuss this.
And we have proposals here.
Uh, maybe, uh…
Anyone knows about agent naming service. We published this paper last year.
And uh… GoDaddy implemented.
Right? It's basically say…
Well, uh, domain naming service, you would resolve…
a domain…
to the IP address. So, in the future, it's all agent to agent.
The majority of traffic will be agent,
So how do you find this agent?
DNS is not sufficient, right? So, we said you may have to extend
the DNS…
for the agent naming service. So, giving the agent a name, you resolve to its capability, or eventually we propose a URL
which has metadata about this agent capabilities, and also it's SAOA.
And then we work, actually, with the…
Uh, MIT,
They have the NADA architecture, so we basically say, okay, we combine this with NADA,
And publish their paper, but this is still all…
in the discussion. Um…
But the horses' audibility will work.
Right, this may be, uh, go back to the…
previous discussion we have.
And, uh, also,
like, a hall… uh…
impact your performance?
Right? Um…
Yeah, anyway, uh, if I, uh…
You want to jump in? Go ahead.
As always, I see lots of…
Yeah, Marcus, go ahead.
I think… and again, it was in the chat earlier on, the human in the loop will not scale.
Here. Also for… when you have agent-to-agent, like, you will… the moment you bring a lumen in there, yeah, Lumen… hey, Lumen in the loop,
Uh, you're gonna sacrifice that scale. So the… the only thing that… the suggestion… I can't remember if it was Akshata or if it was Hila who brought it up with regards to…
The deterministic system in between, or rule-based system in between. Yeah, being one,
And the other one may be that, as I suggested before, there may be some form of security agent
watching that communication pass, so it won't be a one-to-one communication, but it will be a proxied communication… well, the proxy's the wrong term, I suppose, because that still implies that it is handed off to another agent authority before being forwarded on.
But there may be a watcher, a police agent for all intents and purposes, if you like.
That will look for drift, that will look for noncompliance, that will look for, um,
based on a rule-based system for breaches of those rules to then intervene.
If that makes any sense. But that's kind of my thinking now.
Yeah, so silencing is just a good comment, like, uh, even in Entropica, that, uh, we had a discussion
was on topic. They basically have the, uh, like, a multiple agent, right? So,
Like, if you… you need to deliver us some code, you have the code
which you do the penetration testing. You have a code, an agent to do the code review.
You have the agent to really do all this, uh,
different, like, checks, and eventually it's 5 agents to decide.
Um, but the model itself, it's not to the level that you still can fully trust it.
Um, one thing is, uh, like, anropic perspective, they are…
optimistic that eventually it will get there, but hopefully it will.
Um,
And, uh, um…
you do have to, using the AI,
secures AI, because human…
has the… is slow, right? Humans think deep, but it's slow.
So, if you just need a human in the loop,
The whole agent AI system certainly will not scale, so…
then you only have really limited use, right? But if you really want to have a wider deployment,
Certainly, you need a multiple agent. Yeah, I think it's late.
10 certain in Barcelona? Oh.
Let's see who want to conclude, uh, conclude the discussion. Yeah, let's conclude, and thanks to everyone. Yeah, I didn't people to join. I saw that only 3 or 4 people we were discussed, so…
But thanks, everyone, yeah. Uh, Max, since you are here, I'll let you conclude.
Yeah.
Oh, me, to conclude, I didn't catch the beginning, I didn't get the first questions, like, but I… I would say this, though, um…
maybe not on topic, but in terms of the format. I do like this type of conference, to be perfectly honest.
Because to kind of conversations we've had now outside of the talks have been far more available than I've had at any DEF CON, any Black Hat, or whatever. So this was very good.
Yeah, cool. Thank you, everyone. Yeah, you conclude very well. It's fascinating, so…
In the future, aging to well be talk to agents. So we're in a decade of agent.
Lastly is Genesis. This year, people talking about deployment.
But the deployment is… security is very important. Evaluation is important.
Identity is the key.
And we still have not a…
provide a solution to solve it. This is a good…
discussion we have, and everyone can just think about that.
Um, yeah, we are in a really fascinated area. It's called Egypt area. It's a decade.
So, I think eventually we'll figure this out. The model will improve, uh, from this frontier models companies.
Me too, me too.
open source community as well. So let's keep working, keep, uh, uh, learning, keep curiosity. Everyone's student, again. So, thanks, everyone. Take care.
Bye-bye.
Thank you so much, Ken, for this wonderful discussion.
Yeah, yeah, it's certainly… thanks to everyone.
Take care, then. Okay, bye-bye.